* Website: http://discoproject.org/
* Responsible: Prashanth Mundkur, Ville Tuulos
* If you have any questions, send an e-mail to beam-community@googlegroups.com.

Ideas are listed in no particular order.

### Idea #1:  DDFS improvements

Brief explanation:  Disco provides a tag-based replicating distributed filesystem, called DDFS, on which user data can be stored reliably.  Data is stored in immutable blobs, and indexed using tags.  The integration of DDFS with Disco makes it possible to run computation local to the data.

There are a couple of important improvements to DDFS that are pending.  They are described at [DDFS Evolution](https://github.com/discoproject/disco/wiki/DDFS-Evolution).  In brief, these involve adding rebalancing to DDFS, and extending DDFS liveness monitoring to the disk level.

Expected results:  Either or both the above features, with an accompanying test suite (see below for DDFS testing).

Knowledge prerequisites:  Distributed systems, Erlang.

Mentors:  Prashanth Mundkur, Ville Tuulos

### Idea #2:  DDFS testing using Local-Cluster mode.

Brief explanation:  Testing a particular distributed system generally requires significant investment in a distributed testing harness, especially when it comes to supporting _reproducible_ automated tests.  This normally means that testing the fault-tolerance and safety of a distributed filesystem like DDFS requires a fair amount of work.

However, DDFS now has the capability to simulate a cluster in a single machine (the 'local cluster' mode).  This means that we can test the fault-tolerance, garbage collection and replication features of DDFS using a single machine, in an automated and easy-to-reproduce way.

Expected results:  This project would involve writing a testing library and tests that use the local-cluster mode to test GC and replication in DDFS.

Knowledge prerequisites:  Distributed systems, Erlang, Python.

Mentors:  Prashanth Mundkur, Ville Tuulos

### Idea #3:  Improving security of Disco workers

Brief explanation:  Currently, Disco workers run completely untrusted code that has full access to a node's filesystem, and hence also to intermediate data generated by other jobs and any DDFS data on that node.

This project would explore techniques to sandbox the Disco worker process in a manner that is easy to port to exploit sandboxing features supported by different OSes.  The portability should be tested by targeting the implementation at least two of (a) Linux namespaces/containers, (b) MacOSX sandbox(7), (c) FreeBSD Capsicum.

An alternative could be to provide a specialized Disco worker that uses the Google Native Client framework to sandbox.

Expected results:  A prototype of a portable sandboxed Disco worker.

Knowledge prerequisites:  Operating systems, security.

Mentors:  Prashanth Mundkur, Ville Tuulos

### Idea #4:  Property testing of the pipelined job scheduler

Brief explanation:  The new Disco job scheduler was explicitly written in a way to make it easy to test with Erlang's property testing tools like Proper/Triq/Quickcheck.  There are already some basic tests for low-level functionality.  This project would create property tests that eventually cover the entire pipeline scheduling code.

There are other areas of Disco that could also benefit from modularized property testing that the applicant could choose to work on.

Expected results:  A property-testing test suite.

Knowledge prerequisites:  Erlang.

Mentors:  Prashanth Mundkur, Ville Tuulos

### Idea #5:  Network-resource-aware task allocator

Brief explanation:  The current mechanism of allocating tasks to cluster nodes uses a very naive idea of the network topology of the cluster, especially of the rack-locality of cluster nodes.  It would be good to address this taking into account the dynamic network topology present in an environment like AWS (as opposed to assuming a static environment).

There are two components for this project: (a) infer or extract the current cluster network topology while requiring the absolute minimum of user-configuration (ideally none), and (b) exploiting this network topology in a new task allocator algorithm that minimizes network impact of task allocations.

A stretch goal would be to also use this topology in DDFS to minimize network impact of replication and improving replica placement to handle rack-level outages.

Expected results:  A prototype for an improved network-aware task scheduler.

Knowledge prerequisites:  Networking, Erlang.

Mentors:  Prashanth Mundkur, Ville Tuulos